we begin in the Middle East where
Israel's prime minister has promised he
will do everything to restore security
at its northern border with Lebanon
that's after the Israeli Defense Forces
launched air strikes against Hezbollah
Israel says it identified preparations
for a large scale attack now these
pictures just released by the IDF show
them attacking a number of Hezbollah
targets Israel's defense minister has
issued a 48-hour state of emergency in
the country now meanwhile Hezbollah that
it launched more than 300 rockets and
drones at Israel and targeted 11
military sites in response to the
killing of its top commander in Beirut
last month the group has said this was
an initial response and that it has
completed phase one of an attack on
Israel these are live pictures from the
Israel Lebanon border which has had a
number of missile strikes in the last
couple of hours and this was the idf's
announcement earlier from IDF
spokesperson rear Admiral Daniel
Hagi from right next to the homes of
Lebanese civilians in the south of
Lebanon we can see that kisala is
preparing to launch an extensive attack
on Israel while endangering the lebanes
civilians we warn the civilians located
in the areas where kisala is operating
to move out of Harm's Way immediately
for their own safety hisis bala's
ongoing aggression risks dragging the
people of Lebanon the people of Israel
and the whole region into a wider
escalation Israel will not tolerate
bala's attacks on our civilians we are
operating in self-defense from kisala
and any other enemy that joins in their
attacks against us and we are ready to
do everything everything we need to
defend the people of Israel there's the
IDF specs person Daniel hagari well
meanwhile the Pentagon has said in its
words the US is postured to support
Israel and the President Joe Biden has
instructed officials to maintain close
communication on developments well Laura
blumenfield is a Middle East analyst and
former senior policy adviser on the
state Department's Israeli Palestinian
negotiating team she told us more about
the strikes and reactions from both
parties the Israelis have called for a
48-hour period of emergency their
Secretary of Defense their defense
minister Galant um you know is is
calling on the population so it's not
just one night you know one and done on
the other hand so much about these
exchanges of since October 7th has been
not so much about being strong but being
smart and so it's kind of our
intelligence versus your intelligence
kind of battle here the Israelis were
clearly caught by surprise on October
7th the shooker assassination was an
intelligence coup for Israel as was the
hania assassination um into heran so I
think his Bala is is feeling like they
need to show that they can in some way
penetrate um and kind of shift that kind
of dignity back into balance it's
possible that you know they they already
have it's horrible to say but wounded
one person in AKO which is quite deep
into Israeli territory that that might
satisfy the need uh you know for
publicly Saving
Face now also just one update for you
the Lebanese Ministry according to uh
news agencies as well as local reports
uh is saying that one died in the
Israeli uh strike in uh the south of
Lebanon our News correspondent John
donison is in Jerusalem and he told us
about the fears of escalations in the
region this is clearly a significant and
ongoing escalation we're not at the
point of fulls scale War yet but that is
clearly uh the fear not just here in
Israel but in Lebanon and The Wider
region Israel saying around a 100
fighter jets uh were used in this
operation last night hitting around 200
Targets in Lebanon now if that's the
case then that is the most serious
attack on Hezbollah since the full scale
war between Israel and Lebanon uh back
in
2006 now you know in the last few weeks
we've seen intense diplomatic efforts to
try and stop the crisis in Gaza
escalating into a wider regional
conflict uh but the United States has
warned that the failure to get a ceas
fire and hostage release deal in Gaza uh
could see uh this escalate into wider
regional conflict at the at the moment
judging on what's happened to this
morning you'd have to say that those
diplomatic efforts have not worked and
John hisbah has said that this was in
response to the killing of its top
Commander fad shuk on the 30th of July
of course there's also the fact that
isil hania was assassinated in Iran uh
and that Iran which backs hisbah also
vowed a strong response I wonder whether
putting all of this into context can we
see this as Tit for Tat or is that the
real risk that this could uh meet
further responses from Hezbollah as well
as
Iran well I think TI fat kind of
downplays the significance of this you
know when Israel assass uh is believed
to have assassinated the leader of Hamas
is melhan in Teran uh the day before
they had assassinated uh as you say a
very senior Hezbollah commander in Le on
F shoker and we have been waiting for
some sort of response from Iran and from
Hezbollah now in the past few weeks that
response has not really come there has
been some crossborder activity between
Hezbollah and Israel in the north but
not really significant until this
morning and we've not had any kind of
response uh from Iran to uh the
targeting of Ismael hania inside the
Iranian Capital so the fears have been
for the last few weeks that that
response was coming
uh and certainly from the north from
Hezbollah we've got something this
morning and John uh you're in Jerusalem
we've been hearing these reports of
sirens that have been uh blaring in in
Israel as well in certain cities um I
wonder what your assessment is of the
security situation in Israel especially
given that the New York Times is
reporting that uh this attack by
Hezbollah was also aiming Tel Aviv
yeah and of course Tel Aviv is deep into
Israel it's in central Israel really so
uh that would be hugely significant if
they manag to penetrate uh Israel's uh
missile defense system uh here in
Jerusalem this morning I have to say it
feels relatively normal I'm sure lots of
people will be waking up and reading the
news and have uh concerns we did see
some military helicopters flying uh
across the sky earli this morning some
heading north uh but certainly in
Jerusalem it feels uh relatively normal
at the
moment well a reminder you'll see a QR
code on your screen that will take you
to our BBC News live page on our website
and app where our correspondents are
providing updates and Analysis our BBC
News Room is also bringing in any
reaction and information as it comes in
the meantime here on the news channel
let's speak to our senior International
correspondent who's in southern Lebanon
that's Alla Garen Alla uh good to have
you now given all your experience and
your time there could you put this into
perspective for us because the New York
Times is reporting that Tel Aviv was a
Target we know that benguan is now open
the international airport is open but
when you look back at this war how
significant an escalation is
this well we know that the Israelis are
saying Tel Aviv would have been targeted
but that didn't actually happen because
of their preemptive strike we're
certainly in a new stage as a day we had
been expecting this retaliation for some
time now it was at the end of last month
that an Israeli strike killed a senior a
top Hezbollah commander fuad shuker in
the heart of hezbollah's stronghold in
southern Beirut a place called dahia and
Hezbollah had vowed it would respond now
similarly the Iranians had vowed they
would respond for the assassination of
the Hamas leader ISM hania in tran both
had held off and the feeling had been
that they were waiting to see how the
ceasefire attempts being uh led by the
Americans and the Egyptians and the
cateres would play out well certainly
Hezbollah is waiting no more they said
in a statement this morning that this
was the first phase of a large scale
operation and that its full response
would take some time and that the
punishment will be harsh and severe now
I think we need to look carefully at the
targets that were hit by hbet today so
far uh they were 11 military targets
inside Israel so not critical
infrastructure not civilian areas but
military Targets this is according to
Hezbollah we have had no reports from
Israel yet of any casualties and
certainly no reports of Civilian
casualties similarly on this side in
Lebanon the Israelis have hit U more
than 200 t targets they say but we have
not received any reports of Civilian
casualties I should tell you as day that
about 30 or 40 minutes ago in the Hills
behind us we saw two very large plumes
of smoke um from two two detonations two
explosions Israel had obviously struck
close to the Border area which is in
that direction but I think the key to
this is that so far we are not being
told that any civilians have been
injured or killed because that again uh
could be the the trigger for another
escalation it's by no means clear when
Hezbollah plans to carry out its next
phase it says it will happen uh but it
certainly may not happen today so I
think for now uh Israel has got its
preemptive strike in Hezbollah has
managed to fire by its own account
320 Rockets into Israel and sending some
drones so for the moment Hezbollah has
made its Point H now we have to see if
Israel is going to take further action
all right Ola Garen there thank you for
all that insight and again Alla there
has raised that there are still a lot of
questions that haven't been answered uh
including uh verifying the nature of
those military targets uh as well as how
things could develop of course